Welcome to this course
Welcome to this Cybersecurity Fundamentals course! This is an introductory learning experience. It is designed to provide you with an overview of cybersecurity to get you interested in understanding this dynamic and evolving field. The purpose of this course is to provide you with:

Foundational knowledge about the field of cybersecurity 
An awareness of cybersecurity career opportunities that are in high demand globally
-------------------------------------------------------------
Course design and completion
------------------------
Modules and lessons
--------------------
You can easily navigate using the organized module structure at your own pace. This course has the following modules.

Overview of Cybersecurity
--------------------------
What is cybersecurity and its objectives? What are risk management methods, common misconceptions about cybersecurity, and laws to consider?
Cybersecurity: On the Offense
Who is attacking, how, and what are their motives?
Cybersecurity: On the Defense
How can organizations protect against, detect, and respond to attacks?
A Career in Cybersecurity
What is the job market like and what skills would you need if you are interested in starting a career in cybersecurity?
Each module has a series of lessons. In each lesson, you will find the course information, supporting graphics, self-reflection activities, and short research activities.

The course is designed for you to complete the modules and lessons in sequential order.

Completion
Some lessons conclude with a mini quiz to check your understanding of the content. You must pass these mini quizzes in order to get completion credit for the particular lesson. The scores are not tracked.

When you complete a lesson, check I've checked it out! at the bottom of the page to collect your credit and confirm completion!

Then, click Let's Keep Going! to continue to the next lesson in the course. You will see a check mark when you complete lessons and modules.

There is a final, graded quiz called Show What You Know at the end of the course. You must achieve 80 percent to pass. Don't worry! If you aren't successful at first, you can retake the quiz as many times as needed to pass.

Duration
The course is estimated to be approximately six hours.

Tip! This course is quite long in duration. It is highly recommended that you pace your learning over a period of time that works for you and your schedule. For instance, you can complete a lesson and then come back to pick up where you left off. Your progress is tracked.
