What are cybersecurity professionals trying to accomplish? 
According to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), information security is: "The protection of information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide confidentiality, integrity, and availability."

So, information security’s objectives are often defined using the CIA triad as a good starting point. CIA is a mnemonic for the three objectives: Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability.

Confidentiality
Information is private
 

Confidentiality means preventing information from falling into the hands of people who do not have authorization to access the information.
Integrity
Information has not been altered

Integrity means making sure the information stays accurate and consistent, and ensuring that unauthorized people cannot makes any changes to the information.
Availability
Information can be accessed when required	Availability means timely and reliable access to and use of the information when required.
 

The CIA triad is a model to help guide policies for information security within an organization.
Different organizations and scenarios may mean that one objective is prioritized over the others. 

EXAMPLE
Let's look at some examples to put the information security objectives into context for you. 

Confidentiality may be the most important objective for government intelligence agencies. Think about the lengths they go to in order to keep information private, such as using bespoke encryption or even lead-lined brief cases that sink if thrown into a body of water.
Integrity may be the most important objective for banks. Think about if you spent USD $10 on a pizza. You would not be particularly concerned about this transaction being confidential. However, if the transaction is altered and you end up spending USD $10,000 instead, then you would be in serious financial trouble. Should this happen at scale for your bank, it could cease operating as a result of a loss of trust. 
Availability may be the most important objective for a website. Think about if you have a blog. You would not be particularly concerned if it was confidential or an editor helps correct your spelling. You want it to be there and available to you any time you want to update and publish it.
What do you think?
Let's look at how the information security objectives could relate to your day-to-day life by evaluating assets that you likely value. In cybersecurity, an asset is defined as something that has a value to its owner. Assets can be digital, such as a program, or physical, such as a server. Sensitive information such as databases, research, or records can also be called information assets.

Consider your personal bank account, photo library, social media account, and mobile phone. How would a loss of Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability impact you for each asset? Use this provided scale of 1 to 5 to type your rating in the provided fields.

1) Low consequence: You would have no noticeable impact to day-to-day life.

3) Medium consequence: You would have minor impact resulting in a couple of hours of lost time.

5) High consequence: You would have a life changing, massive impact that could last for months or years.

The Highest value will calculate automatically so you can compare how you value your assets and priorities.

EXAMPLE
There is one example already displaying for you: an online debate submission. In this example:

A loss of Confidentiality is considered annoying, but will have only a minor impact and is given a rating of 2.
A loss of Integrity from another person editing the submission could start an argument, which could lead to wasted time making updates. Integrity is therefore given a rating of 3.
Finally, should the online comment disappear entirely, or become inaccessible, there are virtually no impacts, so a loss of Availability is given a rating of 1.
Now, using the rating system above, try and complete your evaluations.
