What is cyberspace?
Let's get you thinking by considering two contrasting definitions of the term cyberspace. Please read each definition.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Definition #1	
The interdependent network of information technology infrastructures that includes the Internet, telecommunications networks, computer systems, internet ­connected devices and embedded processors and controllers. It may also refer to the virtual world or domain as an experienced phenomenon, or abstract concept.

-----------------
A consensual hallucination experienced daily by billions of legitimate operators, in every nation, by children being taught mathematical concepts... A graphic representation of data abstracted from banks of every computer in the human system. Unthinkable complexity. Lines of light ranged in the nonspace of the mind, clusters and constellations of data.


-------------------
What do you think about the two definitions?
-------------------------------------------------
Let's evaluate. The first definition is a text book definition. The second definition is from a science fiction novel called Neuromancer by American-Canadian writer William Gibson. The novel was one of the sources of inspiration for The Matrix series of films and it provided inspiration for computer scientists in the 1990s.

The fact that cyberspace was defined over 35 years ago and has come to be truer than ever before is awe inspiring. The statistics concerning modern technology are outstanding. They are exactly what was predicted. Today, there are billions of users across the world, every device is connected, there is complexity beyond human understanding, and there is unimaginable beauty.

The digital world is much more than just a network of computer systems. It is a place where people do business, live, love, and ultimately are immortalized. 

Cyberspace is the crazy world in which cybersecurity professionals work. They strive to protect the world from those who would do it harm. They remain vigilant, focused, and unwavering in perusing objectives.

The stakes have never been higher. Should they fail, our modern way of life is threatened from the values we hold dear to the infrastructure we rely on for every aspect of our lives. The nightmares we dream would become everyone’s new reality.

Hopefully considering these definitions of cyberspace made you reflect on your views about the internet and wish to engage in its future. This course can start you on your cybersecurity journey. Let's begin!
